PDDL4J library (version 2.0)
Date: 09/02/2011

1. Contact 

Damien Pellier (damien.pellier@imag.fr)
http://lig-membres.imag.fr/pellier/

2. Description 

PDDL4J is an open source library under LGPL licence.
 
The purpose of the PDDL4J is to facilitate the  java implementation of planners 
based on the PDDL (Planning Description Language). The library contains a 
parser on the last version of PDDL 3.0 and all the classes need to manipulate its 
concepts. The parser can be configured to accept only specified requirements of 
PDDL langage. The list of requirements accepted are as follow:

PDDL was originally developed by Drew McDermott and the 1998 planning competition
committee. It was inspired by the need to encourage the empirical comparison of 
planning systems and the exchange of planning benchmarks within the community. 
Its development improved the communication of research results and triggered an
 explosion in performance, expressivity and robustness of planning systems.

PDDL has become a de facto standard language for describing planning domains, 
not only for the competition but more widely, as it offers an opportunity to carry 
out empirical evaluation of planning systems on a growing collection of generally 
adopted standard benchmark domains. The emergence of a language standard will have
 an impact on the entire field, influencing what is seen as central and what 
peripheral in the development of planning systems. 

3. How to use the PDDL4J library ?

3.1 Use binary distribution

The pddl4j library can be used as a jar file called "pddl4j.jar" in the "lib" 
directory of the release. Therefore, include the jar in our classpath and enjoy it.

All the documentation are contained in the doc directory.

3.2 Compiling from sources

The pddl4j library is package with "ant". If ant is not installed on your computer,
go to http://ant.apache.org/, then juste type "and rebuild" at the root of the 
pddl4j distribution.

3.3 Examples

Examples are available in the "examples" directory of the distribution. For instance, 
this archive contains a simple planner based on A* search strategy called AHSP. To launch
the example use the following command line:

java -javaagent:lib/pddl4j.jar -server -Xms2048m -Xmx2048m -classpath lib/pddl4j.jar \\
	pddl4j.examples.ahsp.AHSP -o problems/blocksworld/domain.pddl \\
	-f problems/blocksworld/p15.pddl

Note: A set of planning problems is available in the web site of the international planning competition: http://ipc.icaps-conference.org

